These are... Dad's memories.
He sure looks happy.
For someone who cast his previous
family and friends into hell, that is.
Why show me this?
So that you understand:
How Grisha Jaeger brainwashed and
planted the seeds of nationalism in you.
I'll show you as much as it takes.
Must be nice, Grisha.
Here, you can live out a happy life
without anyone to chastise you
for forgetting your first family...
Even if you forget about
the son you already had.
Let's go.
Next one.
Look, Eren. This is the true him.
He used his job as a doctor
to get close to those in power--
to hunt down the King
and steal the Founding Titan.
If he slipped up,
his wife and son would suffer.
But he continued nevertheless.
Do you know why?
Because he's an asshole who'd toss
his family into a ditch to restore Eldia.
I get it now. I was wrong.
I never should've been born.
I'm no longer brainwashed.
We have all the time in the world.
No need to rush.
You're kidding.
He tracked it down this soon?
What is this place?
The King of the walls' hideout.
That can't be.
Grisha stole the Founding Titan
on the day the walls fell.
That's years from now.
I see... He loved his second son enough
to delay his Restorationist mission.
A stark contrast from me. It seems
he learned from his past mistakes.
However, you moved exactly
how Father wanted you to.
The original you is gone.
Sooner or later, you'll see.
I'm sorry...
I'm sorry, Zeke...
Zeke...
Zeke...?
Is that you...?
Don't be silly. That old, bearded man
can't possibly be Zeke.
This is just a dream.
What...?
Next one.
Next memory, Zeke.
"Memories of the Future"
At this point, you're nine years old.
Grisha loved you and let you grow freely.
To think, you were never
brainwashed by him...
I told you this was pointless before we
wandered for years in his memories.
In that case, why did you betray me?
Your father told you nothing
and made you inherit a Titan,
yet you're fighting just like he wanted?
Eren, why do you oppose
ending the conflict?
What were you planning to do
with the Founder's power?
I am...
...who I've always been...
...from the moment I was born.
You may have thought we were
the same, but you're wrong.
Rather than letting someone steal
my freedom, I'll steal theirs first.
--Do you have any idea what you've done?!
--My dad didn't make me like that.
--I got rid of some dangerous animals!
They just happened to look like people!
--I've been this way since birth.
--Eren!
--Since birth...?
--They would've been long gone
by the time the Military Police arrived!
--You won't find the pathetic little
brother you were hoping for in me.
--It would've been too late! ​
--Nor a convenient little brother
to share your emotional scars with.
--Even so, you were just lucky, Eren! ​
--All I see is a man
who can't accept himself
--The way you casually threw your life away is what I'm angry about!
until he denies his father's wish
to restore Eldia.
A pathetic man still haunted
by his dead father.
In that case, said man
is grateful to his father.
For the father's actions
opened his son's eyes
so he may save the world
from the threat of Eldia.
In a way, it's that father
who saved the world.
Don't you think that's a bit ironic, Eren?
It's warm.
Listen, Eren. I have the power
of the Founder in my hand.
I can carry out the
euthanization plan at any time.
But I will never abandon you.
Just like Mr. Ksaver did for me,
before I save the world,
I want to save you.
"Humanity has not perished," huh?
Those are some hefty
last words to leave behind.
We're home.
Welcome back.
Wow, Eren! You actually worked hard!
Yeah...
What do you want?
Your ear's red.
That shows that you're lying.
You had Mikasa help you, didn't you?
Oh? You're leaving, Dad?
Is it for work?
Yes. Some checkups in the interior.
It'll take a couple of days.
Eren says he wants to
join the Scout Regiment.
Mikasa! I told you not to say anything!
Eren! What are you thinking?!
Do you have any idea how many
people have died outside the walls?!
--Y-Yeah, I know!
--Then...!
Eren. Why do you want to go out there?
I want to know what
the outside world is like!
I don't want to live my entire life
in ignorance inside the walls!
Plus, if no one else is willing
to take their place,
then the lives of all who've
died will be for nothing!
I see.
My boat's about to leave.
I better get going.
Hold on, Dear!
Talk some sense into Eren!
Carla. Words can't hold
back human curiosity.
Eren.
When I get back, I'll show you the
basement I've kept secret all this time.
Really?!
Take care!
I'm an Eldian that came
from outside the walls!
I'm a Subject of Ymir just like all you!
"Information Available for Public Disclosure"
"The Coordinate"
"The place where all 'Paths' intersect. There, time is both instant and infinite."
King of the walls!
Please, you have to kill
the Titans attacking the walls!
Before my wife and children...!
Before the people of the walls are eaten!
We mustn't escape our sins.
Judgment day has come
for the Subjects of Ymir.
When it comes to great power,
people are weak.
I realized something from
the Great Titan War:
We mustn't allow the Power of the Titans
to fall into people's hands.
If the Founder's power falls
again into weak hands,
the world shall again become hell.
To save the world, we must accept
our sins and welcome our ruin.
That girl and I are on the same page.
But this whole family
is slaughtered by Grisha.
You once said you saw this memory
and were disgusted with him.
Was that a lie, too?
My house is right where
the wall was broken!
I live there with my wife,
son, and daughter!
The people of the walls don't
know about their ancestor's sins!
Because you erased
all of their memories!
You think the ignorant getting eaten
by Titans is atonement?!
No. No matter how much we repent,
it won't bring back any of
the lives that Eldians stole.
However, we can prevent more lives
from being stolen beyond the walls.
If we remain ignorant
and accept the world's hatred,
it's only us Eldians who need to die.
It's pointless to try and persuade me.
And even if you steal the
Founding Titan from me, you can't--
I know. I know I can't use
the Founding Titan's power.
Huh?
Each of the Nine Titans
has its own special trait--
including the Attack Titan within me.
For ages, the inheritors of the Attack
Titan have never bowed to anyone.
And I know the reason why:
To fight the King's self-righteousness!
Yes. We were led by our
memories--all for this moment.
The Attack Titan can glimpse into
the memories of its future inheritors.
In other words, it's able
to know the future.
Know... the future?
What does he mean, Eren?
The Attack Titan's special trait?
I've never heard about--
I knew you weren't aware of that, too.
And seeing how you're bound
by the vow renouncing war,
you can't fully use the
Founding Titan's power either.
This is where I eat the Founder
and end the royal bloodline!
That future is already decided!
Run!
I can't.
I can't... kill children.
I'm... a doctor who saves lives.
Impossible... Grisha's supposed to take
the Founder and slaughter this family.
The past... can't just... change...
What are you doing, Frieda?!
Hurry and kill that man!
The Founder is unmatched! Kill him!
Don't let him leave this place alive!
Hurry and kill him, Sis!
Our paradise will be destroyed!
Frieda! You've gotta protect us!
--Sis!
--Frieda!
What are you doing? Stand up, Dad.
Did you forget what you came here to do?
To avenge your little sister
eaten by dogs.
For your comrades. Dina.
Kruger. To avenge them.
You keep moving forward.
Even if you die. Even after death.
Aren't you the one who started this story?
I killed them!
Even the little kids!
With my own hands!
Eren! I killed the Reiss!
All but their father!
Are you happy now?!
Is this what you wanted?!
Will Eldia really be saved
because of this?!
Why won't you show me everything?
The wall being destroyed...
The day it happens...
If Carla is safe...
Was this really the only way?
You're there, aren't you, Zeke?
From here on, things won't go your way.
Only Eren will get what he wants.
--What... did you say?
--I saw Eren's memories
of what comes next.
But I never imagined
it would be so terrible.
Zeke...?
Is that you?!
How you've grown!
I'm sorry... I was a terrible father.
The things I put you through
were so cruel.
Zeke... I love you.
If only I had spent more time with you...
Father...
Zeke...
Please, stop Eren.
The story of those who opposed,
fought, and moved forward.
Just who was it that started their story?
Next episode: "From You, 2,000 Years Ago."
"From You, 2,000 Years Ago"